In the last lecture we implemented this sliding effect here.
And with that I'm pretty happy with the core functionality.
Now there's one thing missing though and that is the theming.
And actually there are two things missing.
You see the settings page here.
We're not using it at all.
Now I want to start with the theming before I come to implementing this side menu and the settings page
which has only one setting related to theming.
It will allow us to switch to background to change the background.
At the end of the last core section I briefly gave you an overview over how theming works in an ironic
two application you may or may not recall this.
We haven't really worked with it.
Now it's the time to do that.
I explained that we have this theme folder with this variable's file which contains a couple of variables.
I want to use this and which allows us to define our own variables or to override built in variables.
Again as mentioned before a good place to learn more is the official resource or the official documentation.
And here's the theming resource you can learn more about how theming generally works and how you can
override the built in variables.
So here you'll see the overwriting ionic variables document and you got a list of all built in variables
can override quite a lot.
The cool thing is here you can also search for some of them and I will explain how that works.
Now let's go back to our editor and let's say we want to change a couple of things we want to change
the default color the primary color.
Maybe we also want to add our own color.
We can then use so that we can not only say color danger and so on but also color our own color.
And I also want to override one built in variable the padding right now and it's not that bad.
But right now we have quite a lot of padding here.
I'd say CD4 padding are used for mobile apps.
There's nothing wrong with it.
But I also want to show how you can could change this very very easily.
We're introducing this padding Freudians padding attribute here.
It would be kind of tedious to remove does attribute everywhere and overwrite us with our own styling.
It's much easier to go to this variable's file and here under shared variables though you can edit anywhere
in this file.
So I'm just adding it here to keep the general structure eye on it to wants to us to keep to make this
easier to understand.
I can add a variable and it can either add a new variable like my own variable which I then could use
for my s.c.s as files.
And this is a kind of advanced if you're familiar with how SAS and variables work.
But the easy way is to overwrite the built in one like content padding.
This is a variable.
Ionic team Autum already created for me and we can see that this is the case year and the overwriting
ionic variables document.
If I search for content padding you see does exist and the default value is 16 pixels.
Now how do you find out if a variable exists.
Well if you're interested in padding a great start would be to search for padding and you see that padding
is defined differently for different types of components which kind of makes sense because you don't
want to have 16 pixels of padding everywhere.
If I'm adding padding here on the content it should definitely not be the same number as if I were to
add padding here maybe.
So therefore the ionic team created different numbers of padding for different components you can use
the padding directive on quite a lot of Kontum But you see that somewhere in between there also is this
contemned padding which you can find out if you search for content padding like this you don't have
to put the dash in between.
So it is quite a powerful search.
It tells us content padding it exists so we can override it again.
Default values are 16 pixels so this would achieve nothing.
But we could change it to 8 pixels so Hoffert if I do this and I save this is already enough to lower
the padding.
You see it's closer to the edge.
Now this gets especially visible if I reduced this to one for example.
Now it's much smaller and if my set is to Ciro while now there still is a little bit of padding.
But here for example is no padding and a little bit of padding we have for the cards simply stems from
the card element itself which has some margins set up.
So let's set this to 8 pixels to lower DD spacier a little bit.
And as I said I also want to overwrite the color and introduce my own one.
Now you learned how to add your own variables or how to overwrite existing ones for colorists.
We get this useful colorists map here.
This is a color is variable and it holds a couple of predefined colors but we can also add our own ones.
For example if I want to set a specific color for the background of a quote I could name a quote back
background any name you want.
And I prepared a color which I found pretty nice.
Let's say it does hex code here.
With this I'm setting up my own color and I can now use this for example here in the favorite's page
for my quotes there and I'll sign it on the and item here.
Antique color property and simply use quote background the name I just set up in the color map in the
variables file.
If I save this and let it rebuild have a look at the new background of my quotes If I favorite this
quote.
Now you see it has this light greenish background.
This is how easy you can change parts of your app and keep in mind you can now reuse quote background
with the color property here anywhere in your app where ever you want to use it.
So that's pretty pretty powerful.
Now the other thing you can do of course is override defaults.
So the primary color here for example can also be changed and also already prepared a nice color for
this.
So I want to change just to this hex code.
F F B B series 0 which has this nice nice golden light touch.
And now you see everything which was blue before it's now in this golden style.
This is how easy it is to style your application and to change the theming.
This is what makes ionic two really fun.
It's super simple to really fine tune to your needs and to adjust to your theme.
So now with that with themed our app the missing pieces a side menu with the settings page we're going
to work on this next